## Twitter Sentiment Analysis

### How to run the code

Run Zookeper and Kakfa Server first:  
`zookeeper-server-start.sh
/usr/local/kafka_2.11-2.0.0/config/zookeeper.properties`  
`kafka-server-start.sh
/usr/local/kafka_2.11-2.0.0/config/server.properties`  
  
Run the Web Server in the folder `/src/ruby`:  
`ruby web-server.rb`  
  
In the browser, navigate to `http://localhost:4567`, insert the
preferred keywords and start the stream processing.  
  
Then run the Spark Streaming job int the folder `/src/scala`:  
`run sbt`  
  
to track new keywords the stream must be stopped before and then started
again.

In this project we developed a standalone application to perform
real-time sentiment analysis of Twitter users related to keywords
defined by the application user. The system exploits two frameworks for
large-scale distributed computation of data such as Kafka and Spark
Streaming to process the stream of Tweets generated by Twitter APIs.

### Used Tools

#### Programming Languages

  - Ruby 2.3.4

  - Scala 2.11.12

#### Web Framework

  - Sinatra 2.0.4

#### Distributed Large-Scale Streaming Processing Frameworks

  - Kafka 2.11-2.0.0

  - Spark 2.3.1

#### NLP Library

  - Stanford CoreNLP 3.5.2

# System Components

The system consists of:

  - A that submit the input from the Twitter Stream APIs to the Kafka
    Brokers. It is written in Ruby (file: `/src/ruby/kafka-producer.rb`)

  - A that creates a DirectStream from the Kafka distrbuted log. It is
    written in Scala  
    (file: `/src/scala/spark-sentiment-analysis.scala`)

  - A to count the processed tweets and analyze their sentiment related
    to a specific topic. It is written in Scala  
    (file: `/src/scala/spark-sentiment-analysis.scala`)

  - A object to perform the Sentiment Analysis of tweets. It is written
    in Scala exploiting the CoreNLP Stanford library  
    (file: `/src/scala/sentiment-analyzer.scala`)

  - A to create a dynamic web interface to visualize the analysis and
    manage the stream of data. It is written in Ruby exploiting the
    Sinatra framework  
    (file: `/src/scala/web-server.rb`)
